The audience has taken a vow of silence -- no applause, no reaction of any kind, except right now when we welcome President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney. 
 (APPLAUSE) 
 Gentlemen, your campaigns have agreed to certain rules and they are simple. They've asked me to divide the evening into segments. I'll pose a question at the beginning of each segment. You will each have two minutes to respond and then we will have a general discussion until we move to the next segment. 
 Tonight's debate, as both of you know, comes on the 50th anniversary of the night that President Kennedy told the world that the Soviet Union had installed nuclear missiles in Cuba, perhaps the closest we've ever come to nuclear war. And it is a sobering reminder that every president faces at some point an unexpected threat to our national security from abroad. 
 So let's begin. 
 The first segment is the challenge of a changing Middle East and the new face of terrorism. I'm going to put this into two segments so you'll have two topic questions within this one segment on the subject. The first question, and it concerns Libya. The controversy over what happened there continues. Four Americans are dead, including an American ambassador. Questions remain. What happened? What caused it? Was it spontaneous? Was it an intelligence failure? Was it a policy failure? Was there an attempt to mislead people about what really happened? 
 Governor Romney, you said this was an example of an American policy in the Middle East that is unraveling before our very eyes. 
 I'd like to hear each of you give your thoughts on that. 
 Governor Romney, you won the toss. You go first. 
 Mr. President? 
 We'll get to that, but let's give the president a chance. 
 I'm going to add a couple of minutes here to give you a chance to respond. 
 Let him answer... 
 Let me interject the second topic question in this segment about the Middle East and so on, and that is, you both mentioned -- alluded to this, and that is Syria. 
 The war in Syria has now spilled over into Lebanon. We have, what, more than 100 people that were killed there in a bomb. There were demonstrations there, eight people dead. 
 Mr. President, it's been more than a year since you saw -- you told Assad he had to go. Since then, 30,000 Syrians have died. We've had 300,000 refugees. 
 The war goes on. He's still there. Should we reassess our policy and see if we can find a better way to influence events there? Or is that even possible? 
 And you go first, sir. 
 All right. 
 Governor, can I just ask you, would you go beyond what the administration would do, like for example, would you put in no-fly zones over Syria? 
 Well -- 
 Can we get a quick response, Mr. President, because I want to... 
 (CROSSTALK) 
 May I ask you, you know, during the Egyptian turmoil, there came a point when you said it was time for President Mubarak to go. 
 Some in your administration thought perhaps we should have waited a while on that. Do you have any regrets about that? 
 Governor Romney, I want to hear your response to that, but I would just ask you, would you have stuck with Mubarak? 
 All right. 
 ...you're going to get a chance to respond to that, because that's a perfect segue into our next segment, and that is, what is America's role in the world? And that is the question. What do each of you see as our role in the world, and I believe, Governor Romney, it's your chance to go first. 
 Mr. President? 
 Governor Romney, "wrong and reckless" policies? 
 Let me get back to foreign policy. 
 (CROSSTALK) 
 Can I just get back... 
 OK. 
 OK. 
 All right. 
 Governor... 
 Let me get -- I want to try to shift it, because we have heard some of this in the other debates. 
 Governor, you say you want a bigger military. You want a bigger Navy. You don't want to cut defense spending. What I want to ask you -- we were talking about financial problems in this country. Where are you going to get the money? 
 But can you do this without driving deeper... 
 (CROSSTALK) 
 All right. 
 Thirty seconds. 
 All right. 
 A lot to cover. I'd like -- I'd like to move to the next segment: red lines, Israel and Iran. 
 Would either of you -- and you'll have two minutes -- and, President Obama, you have the first go at this one -- would either of you be willing to declare that an attack on Israel is an attack on the United States, which, of course, is the same promise that we give to our close allies like Japan. 
 And if you made such a declaration, would not that deter Iran? It's certainly deterred the Soviet Union for a long, long time when we made that -- we made -- we made that promise to our allies. 
 Mr. President? 
 So you're -- you're saying we've already made that declaration. 
 Two minutes. 
 Let me ask both of you, there -- as you know, there are reports that Iran and the United States a part of an international group, have agreed in principle to talks about Iran's nuclear program. What is the deal, if there are such talks? What is the deal that you would accept, Mr. President? 
 Governor? 
 What if -- what if the prime minister of Israel called you on the phone and said, "Our bombers are on the way. We're going to bomb Iran." 
 What do you -- 
 So you'd say it just wouldn't happen? 
 That's -- 
 OK. Let's see what -- 
 All right. 
 All right, let's go. And that leads us -- this takes us right to the next segment, Governor, America's longest war, Afghanistan and Pakistan... 
 Governor, you get to go first. 
 With respect, sir, you had laid out quite a program... 
 We'll give you -- we'll catch up. 
 The United States is scheduled to turn over responsibility for security in Afghanistan to the Afghan government in 2014. At that point, we will withdraw our combat troops, leave a smaller force of Americans, if I understand our policy, in Afghanistan for training purposes. It seems to me the key question here is: What do you do if the deadline arrives and it is obvious the Afghans are unable to handle their security? Do we still leave? 
 And I believe, Governor Romney, you go first? 
 Mr. President? 
 All right. Let me go to Governor Romney because you talked about Pakistan and what needs to be done there. 
 General Allen, our commander in Afghanistan, says that Americans continue to die at the hands of groups who are supported by Pakistan. We know that Pakistan has arrested the doctor who helped us catch Obama (sic) bin Laden. It still provides safe haven for terrorists, yet we continue to give Pakistan billions of dollars. 
 Is it time for us to divorce Pakistan? 
 Let -- let me ask you, Governor because we know President Obama's position on this, what is -- what is your position on the use of drones? 
 Let's -- let's go to the next segment, because it's a very important one. It is the rise of China and future challenges for America. I want to just begin this by asking both of you, and Mr. President, you -- you go first this time. 
 What do you believe is the greatest future threat to the national security of this country? 
 All right. 
 Governor? 
 Well, Governor, let me just ask you. If you declare them a currency manipulator on day one, some people are -- say you're just going to start a trade war with China on day one. Is that -- isn't there a risk that that could happen? 
 I think we all love teachers. 
 (LAUGHTER) 
 Gentlemen, thank you so much for a very vigorous debate. We have come to the end. It is time for closing statements, 
 I believe you're first, Mr. President. 
 Governor? 
 Gentlemen, thank you both so much. That brings an end to this year's debates and we want to thank Lynn University and its students for having us. As I always do at the end of these debates, I leave you with the words of my mom, who said: "Go vote; it'll make you feel big and strong." 
 Good night. 
